DOCS-2950 Add static IP configuration instructions to NextCloud article (#1298)
truenas/documentation: content/CORE/Solutions/Integrations/Nextcloud.md

weight: 26
---

## NextCloud Plugin

The [NextCloud](https://nextcloud.com/) plugin is a suite of client-server software for creating and using file hosting services. 

### Plugins Catalog

{{< expand "Before getting started..." "v" >}}
* You must have a [data pool]({{< relref "PoolCreate.md" >}}) available for plugin storage.

> * The system must be connected to the internet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion for parallel construction maybe this
* You must connect the system to the internet.
```

> * Go to **Network > Interfaces**, edit the intended plugin interface, and set *Disable Hardware Offloading*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion maybe remove this from the bullet list as it isn't a 'requirement' like the other two are characterized as, make it a separate action after the others...
Go to **Network > Interfaces**, edit the intended plugin interface, and set **Disable Hardware Offloading**.
```

{{< /expand >}}

![PluginsList](/images/CORE/12.0/PluginsList.png "Plugins Catalog")
{{< expand "I don't see anything!" "v" >}}
If the catalog doesn't load:
* Go to **Network > Global Configuration** and confirm the **Default Gateway** and **DNS Servers** addresses are correct.
* Open the **Shell** and `ping` an Internet address. 
The output confirms the system is connected to the Internet.
{{< /expand >}}

TrueNAS organizes plugins into two **Collections**:

* [iXsystems](https://www.ixsystems.com/) maintained plugins

> * Open Source plugins created and maintained by TrueNAS users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Open source plugins created and maintained by TrueNAS users.
```

By default, TrueNAS shows the iXsystems-supported plugins.
To see the community plugins, open **Browse a Collection** and select **Community**.

### Installation

{{< tabs "Install Types" >}}
{{< tab "Basic Install" >}}
Go to **Plugins** and select **Nextcloud**, then click **INSTALL**.

![NextcloudInstall](/images/CORE/12.0/SolutionsIntegrationsNextcloudInstall.png "Nextcloud Install")

Type a **Jail Name** and click **SAVE**.

![NextcloudJailName](/images/CORE/12.0/SolutionsIntegrationsNextcloudJailName.png "Nextcloud Jail Name")

> Once Nextcloud installs successfully, you can manage your instance of the plugin.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion you can use after or when here as a better choice
After Nextcloud installs successfully, you can manage your instance of the plugin.  
```

![NextcloudPostInstall](/images/CORE/12.0/SolutionsIntegrationsNextcloudPostInstall.png "Nextcloud Post Install")

> Click **POST INSTALL NOTES** to obtain your *Nextcloud Admin User* and *Nextcloud Admin Password* information. 

Reviewer: if you are specifically talking about the UI elements as UI elements they are bold, if only talking about them in general  as an item or value for the UI fields then no emphasis is necessary. 
```suggestion
Click **POST INSTALL NOTES** to obtain your Nextcloud admin user and  Nextcloud admin password information. 
```

Click **MANAGE** to access the Nextcloud login page within your browser.

![NextcloudLogin](/images/CORE/12.0/SolutionsIntegrationsNextcloudLogin.png "Nextcloud Login")

Enter the credentials from **POST INSTALL NOTES** and click **Log in** to access the Nextcloud Hub.

![NextcloudHub](/images/CORE/12.0/SolutionsIntegrationsNextcloudLogin.png "Nextcloud Hub")
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab "Static IP Install" >}}
Go to **Plugins** and select **Nextcloud**, then click **INSTALL**.

![NextcloudInstall](/images/CORE/12.0/SolutionsIntegrationsNextcloudInstall.png "Nextcloud Install")

Type a **Jail Name**, then disable the **NAT** checkbox and enter an available IP in the **IPv4 Address** field. 
Select an **IPv4 Netmask** (iX recommends 24), then click **SAVE**.

![NextcloudStatic1](/images/CORE/NextcloudStatic1.png "Nextcloud Static Setup")

> Once Nextcloud installs, you must add your Nextcloud IP to your Nextcloud jail trusted domains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After Nextcloud installs, you must add your Nextcloud IP to your Nextcloud jail trusted domains.
```

Go to **Jails** and expand your Nextcloud jail, then click **> SHELL**.

Enter `ee /usr/local/www/nextcloud/config/config.php` to edit your Nextcloud config file.

Scroll to the `trusted_domains` section and type your Nextcloud IP as a new line item. Use the image below for reference.

![NextcloudTrustedDomain](/images/CORE/NextcloudTrustedDomain.png "Nextcloud Add Trusted Domain")

Type <kdb>CTRL+C</kdb> to close the editor, then type **exit** to close the config file.

Go back to **Plugins** and expand your Nextcloud instance. 

> Click **POST INSTALL NOTES** to obtain your *Nextcloud Admin User* and *Nextcloud Admin Password* information. Click **MANAGE** to access the Nextcloud login page within your browser.

Reviewer: Same as above, if not specifically talking about the UI field and only the value items for the UI field, no emphasis required
```suggestion
Click **POST INSTALL NOTES** to obtain your Nextcloud admin user and Nextcloud admin password information. Click **MANAGE** to access the Nextcloud login page within your browser.
```

![NextcloudLogin](/images/CORE/12.0/SolutionsIntegrationsNextcloudLogin.png "Nextcloud Login")

> Enter the credentials from **POST INSTALL NOTES** and click **Log in**.  You will be directed to the Nextcloud Hub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion to remove 'will'
Enter the credentials from **POST INSTALL NOTES** and click **Log in**.  You are directed to the Nextcloud Hub.
```
